Let's see how we can use Driver Manager to connect to the database.
This is a simple class with a main method.
The get connection method establishes
a database connection and it requires a database URL.
The database URL contains
all the relevant information necessary to establish a connection.
First, it specifies what type of database that we're connecting to.
MySQL, where the database server is located.
Localhost, if the server is running on a port other than the default port,
you would specify the port number here.
The database we are connecting to Course 3.
It also specifies the username and the password.
Using the database type the driver manager selects
the appropriate driver from the class bath and obtains a connection.
An important thing to note,
connection is wrapped in a try with resources block.
So it's closed once the block exists.
Connections must be closed after use.
Let's run this class to connect to MySQL.
Connected to MySQL.
Nice. We now have a connection to the MySQL database using
the connection object let's create a statement to send SQL queries to the database.
The create statement creates a statement object.
The execute query sends the SQL query to the database and returns the results.
Note that the statement object is also wrapped in
a try-with-resources block since it must be closed after use.
Let's run this class to see if the query is executed.
It does but we're not using the results of the query.
Let's do that in the next video.